
# Install and run
In order to install and run this project:
* Clone the repo.
* Run `npm install` in the terminal while in the repo's folder.
* Run `npm run dev`.
* Click the `localhost:` link. On my machine it is `http://localhost:5173/`. The number might be different on your machine.

These are the standard actions you will need to perform for any project that uses Vite.

# Encrption method
My idea is a simplified version of LWE. This is a symmetric key encryption and decryption method.

So you have a vector `x` that you want to encrpyt. All the values of `x` are integers, `mod k`. `k` is some prime modulus.

To encrypt `x`, we will use a private key, `s`. `s` is simply used for pseudo random number generation (PRNG). We will hash `s` with a salt. The salt will be stored, unencrypted in our final message. The hashed key will be used as the seed for our PRNG.

We will generate a random, invertible matrix `A`, using our PRNG. Since only we know `s`, only we can know `A`. Then we will multiply `A x = y (mod k)`. Doing this `mod k` means `y` looks completely random, and the attacker can't guess `A`, even if they know `x`.

Well, maybe there is some way to find `A` if they know `x`. And most the time the attacker won't even know `x`, since that is the original message which they are trying to find. So we'll um, **up the difficulty!**

After calculating our encrypted vector y, we will pass each value through a non-linear lookup table (S-Box) generated by our PRNG. This table maps each integer mod $k$ to a different, shuffled integer in the same range. Unlike the matrix multiplication, this step cannot be reversed using simple linear algebra. Next, we’ll randomly cycle the values in the vector.

We will repeat this process - matrix, S-Box, and cycle - for several rounds. The combination of the matrix (which mixes the values together) and the S-Box (which changes the values unpredictably) creates a 'substitution-permutation' effect. This ensures that even a small change in our secret key or message results in a completely different ciphertext, making it impossible for an attacker to use Gaussian elimination to find our matrix.

Decrypting is as simple as doing the steps in reverse. The S-Box will be one-to-one, the cycles can just be negated, and the matrix `A` can just be inverted.

In conclusion, we encrypt a vector `x` into a vector `y`, and salt. `y` is the same size as `x`, so this just slightly increases the message length.

This is much simpler and faster than both LWE and RSA. And I believe it is just as secure as LWE. I think the matrix and modulus don't even to be that big, meaning this could easily be run on the CPU of any device. And obviously, setting up a GPU to run this is easy. The only downside, is this a symmetric key. So no ability to "sign" the message `x`, and no public key. Perhaps this system could me modified to do those things? I don't know. I'm not that good at math.




